# Event-QA
[evencqa.l3s.uni-hannover.de](http://eventcqa.l3s.uni-hannover.de/)

Event-QA is a Benchmark for answering complex Event-Centric questions over Knowledge Graphs (KGs). 
We target [EventKG](http://eventkg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/), a recently proposed Event-Centric KG. 
Event-QA benchmark contains 300 semantic queries and the corresponding verbalisations. The queries are generated by 
random-walk sub-graph traversal.

## Benchmark queries ##

A query in our dataset has the following JSON structure:

```
{
    "dataset": 
    {
  
        "prefix": "The prefix used by the queries",
        "queries": 
        [
            {
                "id": 'Unique identifier of the query in the dataset",
                "sparql_query": "SPARQL Query",
                "question": "The natural language representaion of the query"
            },
            .
            .
        ]
    }
}
```

## Configuration ##

The configuration file (/src/main/resources/config.properties) points to the input data and the algorithm parameters. 


```
input_data /home/.../data/
max_queries=100
max_relations=200000 
format=json
# limit for relations: 668457
```

#### Input data 
The input data files are compressed in one file [input.zip](input.zip). Extract them to your home folder and
specify the path in the config.properties file. The files are composed of DBpedia predicates and relations, where:


Name | Description
:-----|:-------------
**relations_entities_other_dbo.nq** | list of relations with entities
**relations_other_dbo.nq** | list of relations with events and entities
**types_dbpedia.nq** | list of dbpedia properties

In the config file, the "max_queries" parameter, which is the maximum number of queries to be obtained. 
The parameter "max_relations" is the maximum number of relations from the graph to be used. 
These relations are starting points, from where the algorithm begins to traverse the sub-graphs and generated the queries. 
The parameter "format" is the output format of the queries. 

#### Generate queries

In order to generate the queries, please follow the steps:

- **Clone** this project in your computer
- **Enter** in the project directory and execute:
```
mvn clean package
```
- You should see this ".jar" file in your /target directory: 

```
EventKG.graphGenerator-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```

- **Execute** the jar file:

```
java -jar EventKG.graphGenerator-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar
```
- **Wait** until the program concludes the execution
- **Output** is the file  "queries.nq" with the queries generated


#### License ####

This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license (see LICENSE.txt).
